Add tutorials/guides for integrating libraries with the Hub (#358)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/hub/how-to-downstream.md

# How to integrate downstream methods in your library

> In the tutorial, you learned some basic functions for integrating the Hub into your library. Functions that allow your library to download files from the Hub are referred to as *downstream* functions. This guide introduces additional downstream methods you can integrate in your library. You will learn how to:

Reviewer: In which tutorial?

Author: The tutorial refers to `tutorial-add-library` which is intended to provide a general and more approachable introduction to the entire integration process. The `how-to-downstream` and `how-to-upstream` guides digs a little deeper into each specific part of the integration, and presents all the other alternative options.

You actually bring up a really good point about methods vs. functions, and we should definitely keep it consistent. I was struggling a bit with the language here, and I'm not sure which word is better. What do you think is more accurate?

Author: Ok I settled on **utilities** since **methods** and **functions** both refer to specific things in Python.

* Download a file without caching it on your disk.
* Download a file and cache it on your disk.
* Download all the files in a repository.

## `hf_hub_url`

> Use `hf_hub_url` to download a specific file from a repository by providing a `filename`. This function takes the URL of the file, and downloads it. For example, if you want to download a `config.json` file from a repository:

Reviewer: Quick explanation for context since there might be a bit of misunderstanding of this method. `hf_hub_url` only gives you a url in the Hub, it does not download the file. Usually you need the url to make a call to download the file, so that's why `cached_download` (which uses url) is usually combined with `hf_hub_url`

Maybe it could be something like this:

```suggestion
Use `hf_hub_url` to obtain the url of a specific file from a repository by providing a `filename`. This function takes the repository id the file name. For example, if you want to get the url of a `config.json` file from a repository:
```

Author: Thanks for clarifying!

![/docs/assets/hub/repo.png](/docs/assets/hub/repo.png)

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_url
>>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp/resolve/main/config.json'
```

Download a specific file version by providing the file revision. The file revision can be a branch, a tag, or a commit hash. The following example shows how to download a specific version of the `config.json` file using the commit hash:

```python
>>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json", revision="877b84a8f93f2d619faa2a6e514a32beef88ab0a")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp/resolve/877b84a8f93f2d619faa2a6e514a32beef88ab0a/config.json'
```

## `cached_download`

> The `cached_download` function is useful for caching a file on your local disk. Once it is stored in your cache, you don't have to redownload the file the next time you use it. This is a hands-free solution for staying up to date with new file versions. When one of your downloaded files is updated in the repository, it is automatically downloaded and stored for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cached_download` function is useful for downloading and caching a file on your local disk. Once it is stored in your cache, you don't have to redownload the file the next time you use it. This is a hands-free solution for staying up to date with new file versions. When one of your downloaded files is updated in the repository, it is automatically downloaded and stored for you next time `cached_download` is called.
```

Begin by downloading your file with `hf_hub_url`, and then pass the specified URL to `cached_download`:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_url, cached_download
>>> config_file_url = hf_hub_url("lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json")
>>> cached_download(config_file_url)
'/home/lysandre/.cache/huggingface/hub/bc0e8cc2f8271b322304e8bb84b3b7580701d53a335ab2d75da19c249e2eeebb.066dae6fdb1e2b8cce60c35cc0f78ed1451d9b341c78de19f3ad469d10a8cbb1'
```

> 

Reviewer: This combination of `hf_hub_url` + `cached_download` is extremely common, so we created `hf_hub_download` which literally call these two functions.

I think we could begin explaining `hf_hub_download` and then explain its internals (`hf_hub_url` and `cached_download`), WDYT?

Author: I introduced the `hf_hub_download` function in the tutorial (`tutorial-add-library`) since it is commonly used and straightforward.

Alternative options for other use-cases (`hf_hub_url` and `cached_download`) would be better in the how-to guides since they solve different use-cases that may not be as common. I added more context around the `hf_hub_url` and `cached_download` functions here to explain that these two functions basically make up `hf_hub_download`.

Author: Included a code snippet :)

# How to integrate downstream methods in your library

In the tutorial, you learned some basic functions for integrating the Hub into your library. Functions that allow your library to download files from the Hub are referred to as *downstream* functions. This guide introduces additional downstream methods you can integrate in your library. You will learn how to:

* Download a file without caching it on your disk.
* Download a file and cache it on your disk.
* Download all the files in a repository.

## `hf_hub_url`

Use `hf_hub_url` to retrieve the URL of a specific file to download by providing a `filename`.

![/docs/assets/hub/repo.png](/docs/assets/hub/repo.png)

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_url
>>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp/resolve/main/config.json'
```

> Specify a particular file version by providing the file revision. The file revision can be a branch, a tag, or a commit hash:

Reviewer 2: What do you think of mentioning that the commit hash has to be full-length and not the usual 6-7 characters short SHA? We've had issues in the past were users were surprised that the short SHA didn't work

Author: Definitely worth mentioning to prevent unwanted surprises :)

```python
>>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json", revision="877b84a8f93f2d619faa2a6e514a32beef88ab0a")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp/resolve/877b84a8f93f2d619faa2a6e514a32beef88ab0a/config.json'
```

## `cached_download`

The `cached_download` function is useful for downloading and caching a file on your local disk. Once it is stored in your cache, you don't have to redownload the file the next time you use it. This is a hands-free solution for staying up to date with new file versions. When one of your downloaded files is updated in the repository, it is automatically downloaded and stored for you.

> Begin by downloading your file with `hf_hub_url`, and then pass the specified URL to `cached_download`:

Reviewer 2: The `hf_hub_url` doesn't download the file, it retrieves the link as you've highlighted above :)
```suggestion
Begin by retrieving your file's URL with `hf_hub_url`, and then pass the specified URL to `cached_download` to download it:
```

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_url, cached_download
>>> config_file_url = hf_hub_url("lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json")
>>> cached_download(config_file_url)
'/home/lysandre/.cache/huggingface/hub/bc0e8cc2f8271b322304e8bb84b3b7580701d53a335ab2d75da19c249e2eeebb.066dae6fdb1e2b8cce60c35cc0f78ed1451d9b341c78de19f3ad469d10a8cbb1'
```

The `hf_hub_url` and `cached_download` functions work hand in hand to download a file. In fact, this is exactly how the `hf_hub_download` function from the tutorial works! `hf_hub_download` is simply a wrapper that calls both `hf_hub_url` and `cached_download`.

## `snapshot_download`

> The `snapshot_download` function works well for downloading an entire repository. Like the previous functions, all downloaded files are cached on your local disk, and will be automatically updated if a file in the repository is changed.

Reviewer 2: I think this method is a bit complex in the way it works - so I would advocate for adding a few additional details:
- The entire repository is fetched at a given revision (or `main`) and cached
- This means that a single file change will result in the entire repository needing to be redownloaded, and not just the file
- (Optional) This constraint means it's usually better to manually download all files using the methods above if the user is aware of which files they're going to need. This method is particularly useful when a library has its downloading utilities as a helper, unaware of which files need to be downloaded.

# How to integrate downstream methods in your library

In the tutorial, you learned some basic methods for integrating the Hub into your library. Methods that allow your library to download files from the Hub are referred to as *downstream* methods. This guide introduces additional downstream methods you can integrate in your library. You will learn how to:

* Retrieve a URL to download.
* Download a file and cache it on your disk.
* Download all the files in a repository.

## `hf_hub_url`

Use `hf_hub_url` to retrieve the URL of a specific file to download by providing a `filename`.

![/docs/assets/hub/repo.png](/docs/assets/hub/repo.png)

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_url
>>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp/resolve/main/config.json'
```

Specify a particular file version by providing the file revision. The file revision can be a branch, a tag, or a commit hash. If you choose to use the commit hash, it must be the full-length hash instead of a 7-character commit hash.

```python

> >>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json", revision="877b84a8f93f2d619faa2a6e514a32beef88ab0a")

Reviewer 3: Would it be helpful to show an example involving a branch and tag? (e.g. on the same `lysandre/arxiv-nlp` repo so the reader can verify for themselves what that looks like in practice)

Begin by retrieving your file URL with `hf_hub_url`, and then pass the specified URL to `cached_download` to download the file:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_url, cached_download
>>> config_file_url = hf_hub_url("lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json")
>>> cached_download(config_file_url)
'/home/lysandre/.cache/huggingface/hub/bc0e8cc2f8271b322304e8bb84b3b7580701d53a335ab2d75da19c249e2eeebb.066dae6fdb1e2b8cce60c35cc0f78ed1451d9b341c78de19f3ad469d10a8cbb1'
```

The `hf_hub_url` and `cached_download` functions work hand in hand to download a file. In fact, this is exactly how the `hf_hub_download` function from the tutorial works! `hf_hub_download` is simply a wrapper that calls both `hf_hub_url` and `cached_download`.

## `snapshot_download`

The `snapshot_download` method downloads an entire repository at a given revision. Like the `cached_download` function, all downloaded files are cached on your local disk. However, even if only a single file is updated, the entire repository will be redownloaded.

Download a whole repository as shown in the following:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import snapshot_download

> >>> snapshot_download(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp")

Reviewer 3: Would it make sense to explain that by default this downloads the latest revision, and then show an example where we specify the revision (similar to the `hf_hub_url` example above)?

Author: Good idea! I will only show one example here with the branch name since I think it will be a bit repetitive to show them all again.

'/home/lysandre/.cache/huggingface/hub/lysandre__arxiv-nlp.894a9adde21d9a3e3843e6d5aeaaf01875c7fade'
```

> In general, it is usually better to manually download files with `hf_hub_download` (if you already know which files you need) to avoid redownloading an entire repository. `snapshot_download` is helpful when your library's downloading utility is a helper, and unaware of which files need to be downloaded.

Reviewer 3: Do we have "Tip" boxes in these docs? This would be a good candidate for one of them IMO

# How to integrate downstream methods in your library

> In the tutorial, you learned some basic methods for integrating the Hub into your library. Utilities that allow your library to download files from the Hub are referred to as *downstream* utilities. This guide introduces additional downstream utilities you can integrate with your library. You will learn how to:

Reviewer 3: Just in case these "methods" are also supposed to be "utilities" (ignore if not)
```suggestion
In the tutorial, you learned some basic utilities for integrating the Hub into your library. Utilities that allow your library to download files from the Hub are referred to as *downstream* utilities. This guide introduces additional downstream utilities you can integrate with your library. You will learn how to:
```

Author: Good catch, thanks!

* Retrieve a URL to download.
* Download a file and cache it on your disk.
* Download all the files in a repository.

## `hf_hub_url`

Use `hf_hub_url` to retrieve the URL of a specific file to download by providing a `filename`.

![/docs/assets/hub/repo.png](/docs/assets/hub/repo.png)

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import hf_hub_url
>>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp/resolve/main/config.json'
```

Specify a particular file version by providing the file revision. The file revision can be a branch, a tag, or a commit hash.

When using the commit hash, it must be the full-length hash instead of a 7-character commit hash:

```python
>>> hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json", revision="877b84a8f93f2d619faa2a6e514a32beef88ab0a")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp/resolve/877b84a8f93f2d619faa2a6e514a32beef88ab0a/config.json'
```

`hf_hub_url` can also use the branch name to specify a file revision:

```python
hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json", revision="main")
```

> Specify a file revision with a tag identifier. For example, if you want `v1.0` of the `config.json` file:

Reviewer 3: Cool example - thanks for adding this!

```python
hf_hub_url(repo_id="lysandre/arxiv-nlp", filename="config.json", revision="v1.0")
```

## `cached_download`

> `cached_download` is useful for downloading and caching a file on your local disk. Once stored in your cache, you don't have to redownload the file the next time you use it. `cached_download` is a hands-free solution for staying up to date with new file versions. When a downloaded file is updated in the repository, `huggingface_hub` will automatically download and store it for you.

Author: Good point, I agree that users don't necessarily read the docs linearly. I also added that these downstream capabilities have standalone value, besides being integrated into a library.
